Add installation and question usage guide (#20)
systems-cs-pub-ro/quiz-manager-moodle: README.md

# Contents

0. [Introduction](/README.md#introduction)
1. [Installation](/README.md#installation)
2. [Adding Questions](/README.md#adding-questions)
3. [Managing Questions](/README.md#managing-questions)
4. [Updating local database](/README.md#updating-local-database)
5. [Downloading questions](/README.md#downloading-questions)
6. [References](/README.md#references)

# Introduction

Abbreviations: MXML (Moodle XML)

This plugin is used for creating quizzes that are unique for every student and contains questions with specific difficulties and topics chosen by evaluators.

> The selection of the questions is automated based on the options that evaluators choose, so you can have a good distribution of difficulty levels and topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The selection of the questions is automated based on options from evaluators.
The aim is to have a fair distribution of difficulty levels and topics among the unique quizzes created for each student.
```

> We want to choose the questions randomly based on the selected difficulty and topic, and to make sure that all the questions are used evenly.

Reviewer: This can be removed. I don't see this adding anything valuable to the documentation.

> In order to do this consistently when reusing the same questions in multiple Moodle instances, we need to keep timestamps of every question last use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use all questions evenly, we keep a timestamp marking when each question was last used.
There will be a preference to use questions that haven't been recently used.
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove this white line. The next two sentences are connected to the previous one, forming a paragraph.

> As defined in [Managing Questions](README.md#managing-questions), the `last_used` question tag keeps the time of the question was last use, measured in seconds since the Epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As defined in [Managing Questions](README.md#managing-questions), the `last_used` question tag keeps the time of the question was last used, measured in seconds since the Epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970).
```

> The plugin automatically updates the `last_used` tag after every questions use, and can [export it in multiple ways](/README.md#downloading-questions), so it can be imported and reused in a different Moodle instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin automatically updates the `last_used` tag after every questions use, and can [export it in multiple ways](/README.md#downloading-questions), so it can be imported and reused in a different quiz instance.
```

Reviewer 2: Exporting questions is mainly used when you want to copy the questions to another course or to another Moodle instance. If you want to be more specific, you can say:
```suggestion
The plugin automatically updates the `last_used` tag after every questions use, and can [export it in multiple ways](/README.md#downloading-questions), so it can be imported and reused in a different course or in another Moodle instance.
```

# Installation

### Installation From Downloaded zip File

You can download the zip from:
#### latest [(master branch)](https://github.com/systems-cs-pub-ro/quiz-manager-moodle/zipball/master)

Follow the steps below in your Moodle installation (administrative rights are required):

* Go to `Site administration > Plugins > Install plugins`.

> * Upload the zip file. If you are prompted to add extra details, under `Plugin type` select `Question type (qtype)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Upload the zip file.
  If you are prompted to add extra details, under `Plugin type` select `Question type (qtype)`.
```

* Go to `Show more > Rename the root directory` and type `quizmanager`.

> * If your target directory is not writable, you will see a warning message. Proceed to [Manual installation](/README.md#manual-installation-from-zip-file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If your target directory is not writable, you will see a warning message.
  Proceed to [Manual installation](/README.md#manual-installation-from-zip-file).
```

* Press `Install plugin from the ZIP file` button.

### Manual Installation From zip file

If you are prompted with the message `Plugin type location /your/moodle/path/question/type is not writable`, you have to copy the files manually to the server file system, using a zip file or [Git](/README.md#manual-installation-using-git).

* Download the [zip file](https://github.com/systems-cs-pub-ro/quiz-manager-moodle/zipball/master).
* Unzip the file in the correct location: `/your/moodle/path/question/type`.
* Rename the directory to `quizmanager`.

### Manual Installation Using Git

To install using Git, use this command:

```
git clone https://github.com/systems-cs-pub-ro/quiz-manager-moodle.git /your/moodle/path/question/type/quizmanager
```

# Adding Questions

> Questions are added using the Moodle interface, after the plugin was installed, from the quiz menu.

Reviewer: Where are questions added? To the question database? How is that different from importing questions? Should this be importing questions?

Or is this adding questions to a quiz?

Reviewer 2: It's about adding to a quiz.
```suggestion
Questions are added to a quiz using the Moodle interface, after the plugin was installed, from the quiz menu.
**Note:** You have to import questions to question bank beforehand.
```

* After creating a quiz, access it and press the `Edit quiz` button.
* On the right side of the page, go to `Add > + a new question` and select the `quizmanager` question type.
* Select the category where you want your question to be from.
* Set the difficulty from the given list _(Easy - Hard)_.

> * Set the topic that you want your question to have. Note: topics are case **insensitive**, and you can choose **only one** topic for one question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set the topic that you want your question to have.
  Note: topics are case **insensitive**, and you can choose **only one** topic for one question.
```

* Press the `Save changes` button.
* Repeat the instructions for all the questions you want in your quiz.

# Managing Questions

> The plugin can use any [question types](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Question_types) existent in the question bank, as long as the have the associated difficulty and topic tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin can use any [question type](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Question_types) in the question bank, as long as the have the corresponding difficulty and topic tag.
```

If questions are imported from an external source, using any [format](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Import_questions#Question_import_formats) supported by Moodle, the following rules must be followed:

> * The difficulty tag must be one from the following list: `Easy, Easy-Medium, Medium, Medium-Hard, Hard`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The difficulty tag must be one from the following list: `Easy`, `Easy-Medium`, `Medium`, `Medium-Hard`, `Hard`.
```

* The topic tag can take any form, as long as it is consistent with the set topic in the question edit form (see [Adding Questions](/README.md/#adding-questions)).

> * The `last_used` tag is optional (if not present will be considered 0), and the format is: `last_used:time`, where time is an integer representing time since the Epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970), measured in seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `last_used` tag is optional (if not present, it will be considered `0`).
  The format is: `last_used:time`, where time is an integer representing time since the Epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970), measured in seconds.
```

> Details for the importing procedure can be found in the [Moodle documentation](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Moodle_XML_format).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Details on the import procedure can be found in the [Moodle documentation](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Moodle_XML_format).
```

> The following example can be used for importing questions with tags in MXML format (note that you can modify any detail about the questions, the example only shows the use of tags in MXML):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The listing below is a template for creating tagged questions in MXML format.
Simply update it with the contents of the proposed question: statement, answers, tags.
```

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" ?>

<quiz>
    <question type="multichoice">
        <name>
            <text>
                Question Name Goes Here
            </text>
        </name>
        <questiontext format="html">
            <text>
		    Question Text Goes Here
            </text>
        </questiontext>

        <tags>
            <tag>
                <text>
			First Tag Goes Here
                </text>
            </tag>
            <tag>
                <text>
			Second Tag Goes Here
                </text>
            </tag>
	    <tag>
		<text>
			Third Tag Goes Here
		</text>
	    </tag>
        </tags>

        <answer fraction="100">
            <text>
                Correct Answer Goes Here
            </text>
        </answer>

        <answer fraction="0">
            <text>
                Incorrect Answer Goes Here
            </text>
        </answer>
    </question>
</quiz>
```

> # Updating local database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Updating the Local Database
```

> After every question import, the local database that stores the `last_used` tag must be updated, or the questions will be used with the default value of 0, making it useless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After every question import, the local database that stores the `last_used` tag must be updated.
Otherwise the `last_used` tag will be set to `0`, losing its meaning.
```

To do that, in the main course page, navigate to the `Actions menu`(top right of the page, in the course header) and select `Quiz Manager Administration` option.
Under the `Update database` section, select the [category](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Question_categories) of the questions and press the `update` button.

> # Downloading questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Downloading Questions
```

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be "Exporting Questions"?

Reviewer 2: That's a good idea.

You can download the questions in order to reuse them in a different Moodle instance.

> You can choose the regular [MXML](https://docs.moodle.org/310/en/Moodle_XML_format) format, or a csv file format that contains the following columns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose the regular [MXML](https://docs.moodle.org/310/en/Moodle_XML_format) format, or a CSV file format that contains three columns: question text, question hash, `last_used` tag.
```

> `Question text,Question hash,last used tag`

Reviewer: Remove this.

> The hash is used to identify the question, in case of having multiple questions with the same question text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The question hash is used to uniquely identify the question, in case of having multiple questions with the same question text.
```

Reviewer: I don't think this is correct. The question hash is used to have a unique reference to the question in case there's an update to it. Such that it could be updated to the original database as well. Right?

Author: Yes, the question hash is used as an unique identifier when updating the metadata in the original database.

# Content

0. [Introduction](/README.md#introduction)
1. [Installation](/README.md#installation)
2. [Adding Questions](/README.md#adding-questions)
3. [Managing Questions](/README.md#managing-questions)
4. [Updating the Local Database](/README.md#updating-the-local-database)
5. [Exporting Questions](/README.md#exporting-questions)
6. [References](/README.md#references)

# Introduction

Abbreviations: MXML (Moodle XML)

> This plugin is used for creating quizzes that are unique for every student and contains questions with specific difficulties and topics chosen by evaluators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This plugin is used for creating quizzes that are unique for every student and that contain questions with specific difficulties and topics chosen by evaluators.
```

The selection of the questions is automated based on options from evaluators.
The aim is to have a fair distribution of difficulty levels and topics among the unique quizzes created for each student.

In order to use all questions evenly, we keep a timestamp marking when each question was last used.
There will be a preference to use questions that haven't been recently used.

> As defined in [Managing Questions](README.md#managing-questions), the `last_used` question tag keeps the time of the question was last used, measured in seconds since the Epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As defined in [Managing Questions](README.md#managing-questions), the `last_used` question tag keeps the time when the question was last used, measured in seconds since the Epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970).
```

* Go to `Show more > Rename the root directory` and type `quizmanager`.
* If your target directory is not writable, you will see a warning message.
  Proceed to [Manual installation](/README.md#manual-installation-from-zip-file).
* Press `Install plugin from the ZIP file` button.

### Manual Installation From zip file

If you are prompted with the message `Plugin type location /your/moodle/path/question/type is not writable`, you have to copy the files manually to the server file system, using a zip file or [Git](/README.md#manual-installation-using-git).

* Download the [zip file](https://github.com/systems-cs-pub-ro/quiz-manager-moodle/zipball/master).
* Unzip the file in the correct location: `/your/moodle/path/question/type`.
* Rename the directory to `quizmanager`.

### Manual Installation Using Git

To install using Git, use this command:

```
git clone https://github.com/systems-cs-pub-ro/quiz-manager-moodle.git /your/moodle/path/question/type/quizmanager
```

# Adding Questions

Questions are added to a quiz using the Moodle interface, after the plugin was installed, from the quiz menu.

> **Note:** You have to import questions to question bank beforehand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** You have to import questions to the question bank beforehand.
```

* After creating a quiz, access it and press the `Edit quiz` button.
* On the right side of the page, go to `Add > + a new question` and select the `quizmanager` question type.
* Select the category where you want your question to be from.
* Set the difficulty from the given list _(Easy - Hard)_.
* Set the topic that you want your question to have.
  Note: topics are case **insensitive**, and you can choose **only one** topic for one question.
* Press the `Save changes` button.
* Repeat the instructions for all the questions you want in your quiz.

# Managing Questions

> The plugin can use any [question type](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Question_types) in the question bank, as long as the have the corresponding difficulty and topic tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin can use any [question type](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Question_types) in the question bank, as long as the question has the corresponding difficulty and topic tag.
```

If questions are imported from an external source, using any [format](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Import_questions#Question_import_formats) supported by Moodle, the following rules must be followed:
* The difficulty tag must be one from the following list: `Easy`, `Easy-Medium`, `Medium`, `Medium-Hard`, `Hard`.

> * The topic tag can take any form, as long as it is consistent with the set topic in the question edit form (see [Adding Questions](/README.md/#adding-questions)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The topic tag can take any form, as long as it is consistent with the topic set in the question edit form (see [Adding Questions](/README.md/#adding-questions)).
```

		    Question Text Goes Here
            </text>
        </questiontext>

        <tags>
            <tag>
                <text>
			First Tag Goes Here
                </text>
            </tag>
            <tag>
                <text>
			Second Tag Goes Here
                </text>
            </tag>
	    <tag>
		<text>
			Third Tag Goes Here
		</text>
	    </tag>
        </tags>

        <answer fraction="100">
            <text>
                Correct Answer Goes Here
            </text>
        </answer>

        <answer fraction="0">
            <text>
                Incorrect Answer Goes Here
            </text>
        </answer>
    </question>
</quiz>
```

# Updating the Local Database

After every question import, the local database that stores the `last_used` tag must be updated.
Otherwise the `last_used` tag will be set to `0`, losing its meaning.

To do that, in the main course page, navigate to the `Actions menu`(top right of the page, in the course header) and select `Quiz Manager Administration` option.
Under the `Update database` section, select the [category](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Question_categories) of the questions and press the `update` button.

> # Exporting questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Exporting Questions
```

You can export the questions in order to reuse them in a different Moodle instance.

> You can choose the regular [MXML](https://docs.moodle.org/310/en/Moodle_XML_format) format, or a CSV file format that contains three columns: question text, question hash, `last_used` tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose the regular [MXML](https://docs.moodle.org/310/en/Moodle_XML_format) format, or a CSV file format that contains three columns: question text, question hash, the `last_used` tag.
```

difficulty and topic for every question.
The plugin also updates the `last_used` tag with the time the specific question was used,
in order to avoid overusing some questions and ignoring others. The `last_used` tag can also be useful
when reusing the questions in another Moodle instance

# Installation

### Installation From Downloaded zip file

You can download the zip from:
#### latest [(master branch)](https://github.com/systems-cs-pub-ro/quiz-manager-moodle/zipball/master)

* Login as an admin and go to `Site administration > Plugins > Install plugins`
* Upload the zip file. If you are prompted to add extra details, under `Plugin type` select `Question type (qtype)`
* Go to `Show more > Rename the root directory` and type `quizmanager`
* If your target directory is not writable, you will see a warning message. Proceed to
[Manual installation](/README.md#manual-installation-from-zip-file)
* Press `Install plugin from the ZIP file` button

### Manual Installation From zip file

If you are prompted with the message `Plugin type location /your/moodle/path/question/type is not writable`,

> you have to copy the files manually to the server file system, using a zip file or [Git](/README.md#manual-installation-using-git)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you have to copy the files manually to the server file system, using a zip file or [Git](/README.md#manual-installation-using-git).
```

> * Download the [zip file](https://github.com/systems-cs-pub-ro/quiz-manager-moodle/zipball/master)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Download the [zip file](https://github.com/systems-cs-pub-ro/quiz-manager-moodle/zipball/master).
```

> * Unzip the file in the correct location: `/your/moodle/path/question/type`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Unzip the file in the correct location: `/your/moodle/path/question/type`.
```

> * Rename the directory to `quizmanager`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Rename the directory to `quizmanager`.
```

### Manual Installation Using Git

> To install using git, type this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install using Git, use this command:

```

```
git clone https://github.com/systems-cs-pub-ro/quiz-manager-moodle.git /your/moodle/path/question/type/quizmanager
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra white line.

# Adding Questions

> 

Reviewer: Add a short summary: "Questions are added using the Moodle interface, after the plugin was installed."

> * After creating a quiz, access it and press the `Edit quiz` button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After creating a quiz, access it and press the `Edit quiz` button.
```

> * On the right side of the page, go to `Add > + a new question` and select the `quizmanager` question type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On the right side of the page, go to `Add > + a new question` and select the `quizmanager` question type.
```

> * Select the category where you want your question to be from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select the category where you want your question to be from.
```

> * Set the difficulty from the given list _(Easy - Hard)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set the difficulty from the given list _(Easy - Hard)_.
```

Reviewer: Isn't difficulty a number?

Author: We decided to not make the difficulty customizable for every user, in order to make sure we avoid all the human errors we can, and we thought that the Easy-Hard notation was more intuitive than the 1-5 or something similar.

> * Set the topic that you want your question to have (Note: topics are case **insensitive**)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set the topic that you want your question to have. Note: topics are case **insensitive**.
```

Reviewer: Is there a single topic? If so, say this.

> * Press the `Save changes` button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Press the `Save changes` button.
```

> * Repeat the instructions for all the questions you want in your quiz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Repeat the instructions for all the questions you want in your quiz.
```

# Managing Questions

> The plugin can use any question types existent in the question bank, as long as the have the associated difficulty and topic tag.

Reviewer: What is a question type?

Author: Is the type of question in the Moodle question bank (e.g. multichoice, true/false, single answer etc.). I added a link to the Moodle documentation in the README file.

> If imported from an external database, the following rules must be followed:

Reviewer: The mentioning of "external database" is too sudden. Detail what an external database is. Maybe just say: "If questions are imported from an external source". In any case, the input format has to be referenced (maybe link another repository).

> * The difficulty tag must be one from the following list: `Easy, Easy-Medium, Medium, Medium-Hard, Hard`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The difficulty tag must be one from the following list: `Easy, Easy-Medium, Medium, Medium-Hard, Hard`.
```

* The topic tag can take any form, as long as it is consistent with the set topic in the question edit form

> (see [Adding Questions](/README.md/#adding-questions))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(see [Adding Questions](/README.md/#adding-questions)).
```

* The `last_used` tag is optional (if not present will be considered 0), and the format is: `last_used:time`, where

> time is an integer representing time since the Epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970), measured in seconds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
time is an integer representing time since the Epoch (00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970), measured in seconds.
```

> Details for the importing procedure can be found in the [Moodle documentation](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Moodle_XML_format)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Details for the importing procedure can be found in the [Moodle documentation](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Moodle_XML_format).
```

The following example can be used for importing questions with tags in MXML format (note that you can modify
any detail about the questions, the example only shows the use of tags in MXML):

> ```xml

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```xml
```

<?xml version="1.0" ?>

<quiz>
    <question type="multichoice">
        <name>
            <text>
                Question Name Goes Here
            </text>
        </name>
        <questiontext format="html">
            <text>
		    Question Text Goes Here
            </text>
        </questiontext>

        <tags>
            <tag>
                <text>
			First Tag Goes Here
                </text>
            </tag>
            <tag>
                <text>
			Second Tag Goes Here
                </text>
            </tag>
	    <tag>
		<text>
			Third Tag Goes Here
		</text>
	    </tag>
        </tags>

        <answer fraction="100">
            <text>
                Correct Answer Goes Here
            </text>
        </answer>

        <answer fraction="0">
            <text>
                Incorrect Answer Goes Here
            </text>
        </answer>
    </question>
</quiz>
```

> ## __User stories__:

Reviewer: I would remove the user stories from the `README.md` and place it another file: `UserStories.md` or `user_stories.md`, possibly inside a `doc/` subfolder.

</quiz>
```

# Updating local database

After every question import, the local database that stores the `last_used` tag must be updated, or the questions will be used with the default value of 0, making it useless.

To do that, in the main course page, navigate to the `Actions menu`(top right of the page, in the course header) and select `Quiz Manager Administration` option.

> Under the `Update database` header, select the [category](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Question_categories) of the questions and press the `update` button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under the `Update database` section, select the [category](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Question_categories) of the questions and press the `update` button.
```

# Downloading questions

You can download the questions in order to reuse them in a different Moodle instance.
You can choose the regular [MXML](https://docs.moodle.org/310/en/Moodle_XML_format) format, or a csv file format that contains the following columns:

`Question text,Question hash,last used tag`

The hash is used to identify the question, in case of having multiple questions with the same question text.
The hashed string has the following format: `sha256(Question_textQuestion_answer1,Question_answer2...)`.

To download the file, navigate to the `Actions menu`(top right of the page, in the course header) in the main course page and select the `Quiz Manager Administration` option.

> Select the desired format and press the `Download` button under the `Download questions` header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the desired file format and the [category](https://docs.moodle.org/311/en/Question_categories), then press the `Download` button under the `Download questions` section.
```

|student|have the quiz ready when I click "Attempt"|do not waste the allocated time|

> ## __References__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# __References__

```

Reviewer: Why is this highlighted?

>  - [QType Template](https://github.com/marcusgreen/moodle-qtype_TEMPLATE/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [QType Template](https://github.com/marcusgreen/moodle-qtype_TEMPLATE/)
```

>  - [Moodle Docs](https://docs.moodle.org/dev/Question_types)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Moodle Docs](https://docs.moodle.org/dev/Question_types)
```
